Hi.
I'm Noah Ganz, and
this is session four of week four
of our Operations Analytics course.
In the previous session,
we used solver to find IDEAS optimal
order quantity, Q, for supplier P.
We started with a simulated
sample of demand.
And then optimized the queue.
In this session, we'll use the same
approach to solve the news vendor problem.
We'll start with the demand forecast
Senthil's proposed in week one.
And we'll use simulation and optimization
to select an optimal order quantity
that maximizes the estimate
expected value.
We'll also consider the notion of
riskiness that Sergey introduced in
week three.
For any order quantity we can calculate
the standard deviation of ideas profit.
And we'll see how to add or solve
a constraint that places an upper bound
on the standard deviation of the profit.
Okay this is session four and
we're gonna wrap up the week.
The way we're gonna do it is we're gonna
go back to the news vendor problem
that we introduced at
the beginning of the course.
Let's remember Senthil's
newsvendor problem from week one.
You're selling wodgets,
the unit cost of a wodget is three talers.
The sales price is 12 talers and
there's no salvage value.
You've got a bunch of historical
demand that you can analyze.
And you see that the demand's
been variable and uncertain.
What you'd like to do is use the data
that you have, the demand and
the cost and revenue data,
to figure out how many wodgets,
Q you should order to
maximize expected profit.
We now know how to find
a good order quantity.
We'll use the historical data
to forecast future demand.
Senthil had a normally distributed
forecast with a mean of 52.81 and
a standard deviation of 15.1
We'll use the demand forecast
then to drive a simulation.
In the simulation,
if we order quantity Q and demand is D,
then our profit pi is going to be
12 tailors times the quantity sold.
And that's just the minimum of
demand in the order quantity
minus three tailors times
the quantity ordered.
For a given Q,
we can simulate samples of D.
And for each sample,
we can calculate a profit, pi.
Once we've got the profits for
each of the samples,
we can then calculate the average.
Finally, we'll use optimization to find
an average profit maximizing Q for
the sample.
Our objective will be to maximize
the average profit that we've calculated.
And the decision variable
will be the order quantity.
If we want we can place constraints on
the minimum and maximum order quantity.
The optimal q of course maximizes
the average profit just for that sample.
But if the sample is large, we know it's
a good estimate for the optimal Q for
the demand forecast.
Let's take a look at a spreadsheet
where we'll build the simulation and
the optimization.
We can implement our simulation and
optimization in Excel again.
I'm going to use a template that's a part
of a file newsvendoroptimization.xlsx,
that you can download from
the Coursera website.
Again, the template has all
of the labels filled in,
and we're going to fill in the numbers and
the formulas.
At the top, we have the sales price,
and that's 12 tailors.
We have the unit cost, and
that's three tailors and
the order quantity is
what we want to find.
For the moment, I am going to put in
an order quantity, lets say, of 40.
Notice that I've highlighted
the order quantity with red to
identify it as the decision variable.
In column b, we're going to sample fifty
samples from the demand distribution which
is normally distributed with a mean of
52.81 and the standard deviation of 15.1.
Now, if you look carefully, you can see
here the numbers go one through eight.
And then 49 and 50 and
that's because I've hidden rows 18 to 57.
But don't worry,
when we use the random number generator
to fill in those numbers the hidden
cells will be filled in as well.
So let's go now and
use the random number generator.
Remember from week three
if we click the data tab.
And the data analysis menu item, and then
the random number generation menu item.
We can choose to sample from
the normal distribution.
Again, this dialogue box is very small and
in a moment I'll show you
a larger version of it.
We're going to sample one random variable,
that's demand.
We're going to sample this time,
50 numbers, and
we're going to sample from
a normal distribution.
The normal distribution has
two parameters of mean.
In this case the forecast mean is
52.81 and the standard deviation.
And here the forecast
standard deviation is 15.1.
We'll use our familiar random seed,
one, two, three, four, and
we want to tell Excel that
the output range starts in cell B10.
Having set everything up,
we can click OK and
it will generate our 50 normally
distributed random numbers.
Notice again that by definition,
a normal distribution will have
fractional numbers coming out of it.
And I'm just going to reduce the number of
digits after the decimal to clean it up
a little bit.
Before we move on, I want to show you that
random number generator dialogue box.
Again there's one random
variable that's the demand.
We took 50 samples of demand.
The demands were normally
distributed with a mean of 52.81 and
a standard deviation of 15.1.
We'll use the Random Seed 1234, and
the first cell in the output
range was cell B10.
Okay.
Let's go back now to the spreadsheet.
So we now have all the data
that we need and we can start
constructing Excel formulas to calculate
the other important statistics.
As before,
the sales revenue equals the sales price,
in this case it's 12,
times the minimum of the order quantity,
here it's 40, and
the demand for that sample.
So here you can see the sales
revenue is 424.5, and
that's driven by the demand,
because 35.4 is less than 40.
The unit cost is always going to be 3,
times,
the order quantity, so
that should be 120 and
total profit is simply the sales
revenue minus the unit cost.
So in this first sample we can see
that the demand sample was 35.4.
The sales revenue was about 424,
the unit cost was 120,
and the profit was about 304 talers.
One we have the calculations for
one sample, we can copy them down for
the rest of the samples.
And here's what they look like.
It's interesting to see that for
the samples that we see,
after the first two all of the samples
are above the order quantity of 40.
And in all of those cases,
the profit for each sample is 360.
For example, if we change the order
quantity, let's say to 60.
Then we're gonna see in many cases
the demand was less than 60 and
we see the total profits changing.
Again, once we have the profit for each
of the samples, then we can use the Excel
formula average to calculate
the average profits for the simulation.
And notice that I've
highlighted that cell in blue,
because that's going to be
our objective function.
And finally, if we're interested,
we can also calculate
the standard deviation
using the Excel function.
And here, you can see the standard
deviations, about 159.
We'll actually come back
to that a little bit later.
So now we've got the spreadsheet set up
and we've seen that each time we change
the order quantity,
the average profit changes.
Just as we did in last session.
We're going to define an optimization
problem where we're going to maximize
average profits by changing the decision
variable, which is the order quantity.
Recall from week two, that we can
access Excel solver by the data tab.
And then the solver dialogue box.
Again, the dialogue box is very small.
And in a moment I'll show you a larger
version that's easier to see.
We're going to set our objective
to be the average profit.
And we wanna make sure
that we maximize it.
Our decision variable
is the order quantity.
And I'm just going to have one constraint,
and
that is I want to make sure that the order
quantity is greater than or equal to zero.
Okay, notice I could I could
have just clicked this
Make Unconstrained Variables Non-negative.
That is the same thing as
saying the variable C5, or
the order quantity,
has to be greater than or equal to zero.
Here I've done it explicitly.
It doesn't hurt to have both.
As we saw last time,
this problem's nonlinear because of the
min function, which defines the revenue.
So I'm going to leave GRG nonlinear.
If you're interested in seeing why that
is and what you can do to streamline
the formulation, you're welcome to
see the optional advanced session.
But again, it's only optional.
There's no requirement to see it.
So let's run the optimization
problem with the 50 samples.
And you can see in this case, the optimal
solution is to order 59.5 units and,
earn an average profit, across the 50
samples, of around 402 Taylors.
We can also include constraints on risk.
Recall Sergei's session on risk and
reward.
That is, often decision makers
must trade off risk and reward.
A common measure of the reward
is the expected value.
That's risk neutral.
One common measure of risk out of
many is the standard deviation.
Suppose we wanted to limit
the news vendor's risk.
That is, suppose we wanted to limit
the standard deviation of the profit, so
that it's no more than 125 talers.
We can update our optimization
problem to limit that risk.
We'll use Excel to calculate
the standard deviation of the profit.
And we'll add a constraint that limits
that standard deviation for any Q.
Note, the standard deviation
function is not linear, but
it is something called quadratic,
it just has square terms in it.
And that's a well behaved
kind of non linear function.
If you want to learn more about non linear
optimization and quadratic functions.
Look at a book on business analytics for
example the one we show here.
Here we are again at our Simulation and
Optimization problem that we started
building up earlier in the session.
Remember, originally we
maximized the average profit
which was 402 tailors by
choosing an order quantity,
and in this case the optimal
order quantity was 59.5.
What we'd like to do now is
add one additional constraint.
And that is, we want to make sure that
the standard deviation of the profits,
down here you can see
below the average profit.
It's about 158, we want to make sure that,
that does not exceed 125.
And that's also very easy to do.
Let's go again to the solver dialogue box.
Here's our original optimization problem.
We're just going to add
one more constraint and
the constraint is that whatever
number is in cell E62,
which is the standard deviation
should be less than 125.
So that will limit the standard
deviation of any solution to
be less than or equal to 125.
We can then resolve the optimization and
we see that the optimal
order quantity has now
reduced from 59.5 to 50.3.
By reducing the order quantity,
we've been able to bring
the standard deviation down
from more than 150 to 125.
Of course the price that we've paid
is we've reduced the average profit
from more than 400 to about 382.
And what we've done is to reduce our risk,
we had to pay a price
of reducing the reward.
In this case,
the reward is the average profit.
So that's it for week four, session four.
We came back to the newsvendor, that's
a fundamental problem in operations.
Given the price, cost, and demand history,
we need to choose a good order quantity Q.
We used the demand forecast from week one,
along with the simulation and
optimization tools from weeks two and
three to find a good Q.
With these tools,
finding an effective Q was easy.
We simulated a large number of demands.
We then optimized to find a Q that
maximized the average profit for
the sample.
We used the optimal Q for the sample
as an estimate for the optimal Q for
the overall problem.
Adding a constraint on the standard
deviation of the profit was also easy,
there are two caveats to remember.
First, the "min (D,Q) in the middle
of the problem is not linear.
And if you're interested to see why and
what you can do about it,
there is an optional advanced
session that you can take a look at.
The other caveat is the standard deviation
is also not linear, but as I said before,
that's not a problem.
In this last course session,
we return news vendor problem
that started the course.
Our input data where Senthil's
forecast of the demand distribution,
along with the newsvendor's revenues and
costs.
We built a simulation model that
calculates average profit for
a sample of demands in
any order quantity Q.
We then use solver to optimize
the simulation spreadsheet and
find an approximately optimal que.
That's the queue that maximizes
the average profit of the samples.
We also define the news
vendor's risk tolerance
as limiting the estimated
standard deviation of the profit.
And we added a constraint
to our optimization model
to ensure that the optimal solution would
have an estimated standard deviation
that's less than the limit.
More broadly, in week four we've taken a
look at decision-making under uncertainty
when the outcomes of decisions depend
on many factors and can be uncertain.
We started by introducing decision trees.
As a tool to describe and
analyze these problems.
And we used simulation and
optimization to extend the range of
settings that can be tackled using trees.
Not bad for a weeks work.